Welcome back.
Let's talk about sorting when it comes to specific languages and I'm going to use javascript here.
I'm going to be showing you different sorting algorithms that it can be used with any type of data.
It doesn't just have to be strings doesn't just have to be numbers it can be any type of data.
But I also want to show you why sometimes you want to be careful when it comes to sorting and just don't
trust that your built in method and your own language sort's data correctly.
Let me demonstrate this with javascript.
Let's say we have another array here and this array will call it basket and this basket will have a
set of letters will have some numbers.
I'll have to 65 34 to 1.
And let's say 7 and 1 more 8.
Now we saw that when we sorted the letters everything looked good.
What happens if I sort the basket here of numbers.
What do you think will happen.
And I encourage you to try this with your own language as well and see what kind of results you get.
Let me click on here.
That's the result.
Is that what you expected.
That doesn't look sorted does it.
Now this is a silly example but it's important to demonstrate that when it comes to sorting you want
to make sure if you're not implementing it you know how it works.
For example when it comes to Javascript the way it sorts numbers is that it actually converts them to
strength.
At least that's how the SOR method works.
So what happens underneath the hood is instead of just comparing numbers it does something along the
lines of if he gets to 65 65 and then it's going to grab the character code in the first index so we
can use the method.
Care char code at and give it to zero.
So it's going to measure the character code at 65.
If I run this I get 54.
Now 54 is Unicode and if I go to Unicode table this whole characters are encoded in our computers.
Now if I go to six I see that.
Yeah we see when we hover over that it says the ASTM are code for it is 50 for the character representation
is 54.
So that's what's happening here.
If I do let's say two here and we'll do one more Thirty four and let's just console log these so we
know what's happening
and I click run we see that too is 50 65 or six is 54 and 34 is 51.
But if I do something like seven it's going to grab the number and it's going to be 55.
So a lot of people get confused when they use a sword method like this and they don't get the response
that they wanted.
And that's why it's good to read the documentation of whatever you're using such as a sort method Enderton
how it works in a language.
And to add even more confusion you see here that the time and space complexity of sort cannot be guaranteed
as it is implementation dependent.
Remember Javascript has a standard called ECMAScript a governing body suggests what it should look like.
However how you implement it is really dependent on different engines.
So the Chrome browser would use a different javascript implementation than let's say Firefox or Safari.
And what kind of sort algorithm they use underneath the hood is dependent on the browser.
And that's something we're actually going to talk about later on in the videos.
But to finish off this section about the weirdness of sorting Let me show you one more example.
Let's say I have an array of Spanish words here.
When he go out of course US football and we want to sort these.
What do you think will happen.
Let me remove this and do this here.
If I click Ron I guess cause us football our goal when we go again because of the Unicode characters
the A with the accent on it is not the actual aid that would come before something like.
See as you can see here.
So in this case to solve this problem we would have to do something along the lines of creating a function
inside of sort that takes a and b which is the first and second item and it's going to return a plus
locale.
Compare B which allows us to compare these even if there were different languages.
So if I have run this you see that it's now fixed and everything is working.
And again locale compare is something that you can check out and I will link to overhear.
Now the reason I'm showing you this is not because we want to become javascript experts Well everybody
has their own language but to show you that there's many ways that we can sort things.
And even with small little differences like this one there's a lot of considerations that need to be
had.
And underneath this sort method is actually one of the algorithms that we're going to learn about in
this course and I also recommend you checking out the MGM page which I'll link to that shows you how
you can compare different things such as numbers such as objects and items in an object using the sort
method you see in order to sort this properly we'd have to do something like this where we have a function
inside of the sort method that will take a and b which is the first and second item.
And we'll simply say return a minus B and if we run this we see that our numbers are now sorted.
But that's enough for now.
Let's talk about the sorting algorithms that are being used in computer science.
Next video I'll see in that one Babai.